---
title: "About Peritz"
date: 2023-06-07T17:21:52+01:00
draft: false
type: post
description: "Introduction to me, Peritz, and to the world of security."
---

# About Me

Who am I? I am Peritz. If you're confused, here is a photo:

![Peritz, colorized (circa. 2022)](/images/peritz.png)

I am a security professional and privacy enthusiast with experience and
knowledge in pentesting, development, and administration of cloud
infrastructure, web applications, Linux applications, container technology, and
a whole load of other stuff. I've also got my own non-technical hobbies, but
this is that kind of space.

What's this blog thing for then? I've been a keen advocate for security and
privacy in my personal life for a long time. I figured there's no time like the
present to expand that into the public domain. It's time to talk security and
it's time to talk privacy, and not just for the technical among us.

I've worked closely with security professionals for nearly five years (time of
writing). It wasn't my intention to get looped up in this world, at least not
initially. I originally wanted to be a game developer, and before that a
musician. When I started to explore the big world of university, I discovered
that breaking things for money was a far cooler job. I spoke to a security
professional who led a black team around then, and I remember he said "we don't
send our guys parasailing down buildings... well, not always". How, as a 19 year
old, could you not be hooked on that.

From there I went chasing a security career with almost religious passion.
Everything I did and thought came back in some way to security. It's one of the
most fascinating professional fields out there. People come from every
background to collaborate on issues of international (and sometimes existential)
significance. Security works its way into global politics, human rights, free
speech, and anything else you can think of. Underneath all of this are the
fields of politics, psychology, mathematics, physics, engineering (of every
degree), and even art, music, and economics. This is all before we even touch a
keyboard.

Security encompasses everything in our world. It wraps around everything in some
way and impacts us all. So much of it exists in the shadows, unseen by most,
impacting all. One of the biggest issues today is how to bring it out of the
shadows, how to make the significance of this stuff apparent to the world.
Ultimately, you don't have to be technical to understand that someone deleting
all the data a company owns is bad. However, it's a different problem to make
decision makers aware of the difference between the threat of AI and the threat
of a rogue social media algorithm.

I'm sure you can start to work out my views on a lot of this based on what
language I've used. I'll use this blog to expand on my views, and offer people
both a technical and non-technical view of the world of security. There'll also
be some guides, some tips and tricks for the more technical among us.

That's what this is: an exploration of the world of security from someone who
cannot set his mind still. Let's take on this adventure together.

Finally, I'm powered by Arch Linux with urxvt, X, i3, tmux, and neovim. Python
and Go are supreme. I'll happily take this one outside if you disagree.

Feel free to get in contact with me about anything at
[peritz@pardonmynoot.com](mailto:peritz@pardonmynoot.com).

I'm looking forward to this.

Signed,

Peritz

![](/images/peritz-face.png)
