---
title: "Intro to Personal Security"
slug: persec-01
date: 2023-08-04T11:52:39+01:00
image: /images/travel-kit.jpg
tags:
  - personal-security
type: post
draft: true
---

{{< figure src="/images/travel-kit.jpg" caption="Photo by Annie Spratt on Unsplash" alt="Equipment for travelling lying flat on a table." >}}

# Personal Security

The world in recent decades has undergone a revolutionary shift in the way we
work, live, communicate, and interact as a society in general. 30 years ago we
were debating whether or not to buy into this whole internet thing, which
required purchasing a connection which would interrupt your phone line. Today,
we're faced with AI which can help draft legally-worded letters to landlords and
lawyers.

Whenever you travel to a new country or city, you might pick up a guide book and
do some research. Among the countless examples of the local cuisine and details
of local architecture, you'll probably be warned of common scams and how to spot
and avoid them. When you buy a house you'll hire a solicitor or mortgage broker
who will help guide you through the process of obtaining a loan from the
bank, how to increase your chances, and how to legally protect yourself from
common pitfalls. When you drive on a road you'll see warning signs about hidden
dips, roundabouts, wildlife crossings, sudden bends, and much much more. When
you arrive on the internet (which I guarantee you is more than you realise), you
will find unclear notices about cookies... and that's about it.

The internet has undergone collosal change in recent years, and the change is
accelerating, with little sign of slowing down, and yet little <u>concrete</u>
advice exists for how to navigate this environment safely.


## What we're talking about

**Personal security** is the measures that an individual takes in order to
reduce, deter, and delay crime, potential crime, or a *security incident* which
has the capacity to affect said individual. Being in a secure state means that
adequate measures have been taken to achieve the above definition, and to have
procedures in place to mitigate the affects of an incident against yourself.

**Online hygiene** is one such measure that an individual can take in order to
achieve personal security. This involves creating and maintaining a clean, tidy,
and minimal online presence according to your individual aims and security
scope.

**Privacy** is related to online hygiene and personal security, but they are not
the same. The only way to live a fully private life is to turn off the computer
you're reading this on and never go outside. We're not going to do this. Privacy
is (similar to security) appropriate measures to protect what *you consider* to
be confidential information about yourself and your family.

Those definitions are probably a lot to take in. Their meaning will become
clearer as we go through, particularly what I mean by "scope".


## Why should we care

Personal security is not done out of fear. We all acknowledge that bad things
can happen in the world and we inherently understand the concept of risk, and we
all take steps to reduce it. When you leave your house you lock your door, when
you cross the road you look left and right, when you are at a busy event you
arrange an emergency meeting point with your children. None of these things are
done because you live in constant fear of your house being robbed or of your
kids being lost (at least not ALL the time). We do these things because we
acknowledge that things can go wrong.

There's a man who is known in the media only as "Mark". In early 2021 Mark
noticed that his son had a rash in his groin area. He contacted a medical
professional about this, who subsequently asked Mark to share a photo. Mark
shared a photo via Google Images. In February 2021, Mark received a message from
Google which indicated that an algorithm used to tackle child pornography had
been triggered.

Mark was investigated by the authorities and subsequently cleared. Google never
reinstated his account, in fact they permanently deleted it. Mark lost decades
worth of documents, family photos, and important emails. It is likely he will
never recover these.[^mark-google]

Everyone has heard of online scams, ransomware, and social media hacking. No
doubt you'll have heard of someone having their Facebook hacked or being scammed
out of some money from submitting their bank details online. Maybe you've
experienced this yourself. We're all aware that there's bad guys out there, but
that's not the only way that you can lose valuable information.

Mark's story is only one example of when things have gone wrong. No one would
expect that sharing a medical concern with a professional consultant would
result in the loss of all of their family photos and valuable online data.
Unfortunately it happens, and not just for the same reason as Mark.

In cyber security there is a common framework used when assessing risk within a
business called the CIA triad. This acronym stands for Confidentiality,
Integrity, and Availability. Our personal security similarly relies on all
three. In Mark's case there was a breach in availability and (you could argue)
in confidentiality (you'll read in the story that Google employees had access to
view the photo which caused the issue). Mark lost access to his information, it
was unavailable.


## How is this going to help?

This series on Personal Security is to be your guidebook to the online world and
how to navigate it safely. It is designed for everyone, not just the technical
among us. I'm hoping to provide some amount of valuable information and advice
to everyone that reads this, regardless of age, country of residence, technical
ability, or personal situation.

I'm also hoping that throughout this series you will become more aware and begin
to question the online world more in your life. The internet is all around us,
more than you realise. Hopefully you'll be able to recognise the risks when they
pop up, and be able to take appropriate action. If you come to disagree with me
then good, it means you're thinking about it.

See this as your highway code to the internet.

### Plan of Action

The aim is to cover the lowest effort, highest reward topics first. As we move
through you may notice that the topics get more advanced and take a little more
effort to implement. It's important to remember that security is a marathon, not
a sprint and any action you take no matter how small is one step towards a safer
life.

#### Upload of Personal Information and Official Documents

This post will discuss the implications of uploading personal information to the
internet. I think that this is something that can apply to everyone regardless
of how you use the internet and your internet-connected devices. The post will
discuss what we consider personal information, what we mean by official
documents, and what actions you should or shouldn't take when asked for personal
information.

We'll also discuss what a breach of this data means and what actions you can
take when you realise that you've given away your information to the wrong
person.

#### Passwords

A blog series about security wouldn't be complete without passwords. I'll
discuss why we care so much about passwords and why they are the key to
unlocking or destroying your digital life.

#### Multi-factor Authentication

Unfortunately, passwords aren't always enough, *especially* for your most
important online accounts. I'll explain what multi-factor authentication (MFA)
is, why we care about it, what methods there are, and how to implement them.

--- 

## FAQ

Below are some of the common questions I've been asked when I talk to people
about personal security in their lives.

#### Why would anyone want to hack me?

True that you might have nothing of particular value to a hacker. Generally
speaking, unless you're a high-profile individual, no one will be going out of
their way to make your life miserable by hacking you. Unfortunately, it's
nothing to do with you and the hackers' interest in you. It's not that the
hacker cares about you, it's that the hacker doesn't care *that* it's you.

Hacks against individuals are highly automated and target everyone that they
can. It's only once you start to interact with them that they care who you are,
and sometimes it won't even get as far as that before something bad has already
happened.

As well as that, security isn't all about getting hacked. What happens if you
lose your phone or forget the password to your email and social media? What
happens if your kid decides to buy a bunch of stuff from an app on your phone?
These are also the questions we aim to answer.

#### I've got nothing to hide, so why should I care about privacy?

On the surface, a tough question to argue against. If you've got nothing to hide
then sure, who cares about what people out there on the internet know? But we
all have *something* to hide, otherwise why do bathroom windows have frosted
glass? Why don't people flash their cash in a downtown bar? It's not about
having something bad to hide, it's about keeping what we do have safe from harm.

If you're still not conviced, feel free to email me your full name, address,
bank details (including that CVC on the back of your card), your phone number,
your social security number (or national insurance number for those in the UK),
and a scan of your face and fingerprints.

You wouldn't tell it to a stranger on the street, so why tell it to a stranger
on the web?

[^mark-google]: Source: https://www.independent.co.uk/tech/google-surveillance-photo-mark-child-porn-b2149861.html

